
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
     V9t9:  TI Emulator! v6.0 Documentation      (c) 1995 Edward Swartz
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
  ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤอออออออออออ DEMOS.TXT อออออออออออฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ

       I've created a demonstration function to the program to allow you
  to see the graphics/sound/speech capabilities of the emulator, all
  without needing any ROMs.  (Unfortunately, though, all you can do is sit
  and watch.)

       For those of you with ROMs and other assorted 99/4A programs, the
  demo function can be used to record demonstrations to show to your
  friends and loved ones.


  อออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟออออออออออออ
             ณ THE DEMONSTRATION (/D) COMMAND-LINE PARAMETER ณ
  อออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูออออออออออออ

       The demonstration function requires memory that would not usually
  be used in normal operation of V9t9.  Therefore, a command-line
  parameter (/D) specifies that you really want to use demo capabilities
  and the associated memory.

       If you specify the /D switch to V9t9, please specify it as the last
  parameter.  This switch sets up the emulator to allow demo recording, or
  to run a demo file already created.  To set up the emulator to record
  demos only, specify "/D" alone.  To play back a demo and stop, specify
  "/D" and the filename of the demo to execute:

      V9t9 /D                  sets the emulator up to record demos
      V9t9 /D xxxx.DEM         runs the demo xxxx.DEM and stops.


  อออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟออออออออออออออออ
                 ณ OKAY, COOL... WHAT IS A DEMO, REALLY? ณ
  อออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูออออออออออออออออ

       A demo file simply consists of copies of the data written to the
  video, sound, and speech "chips", along with breaks where the 1/60
  second timer ticks.  When executing the demo, the saved data is written
  to the respective "chips" again, making it look as if the emulator were
  operating by itself.  Note that peripheral access (such as to the disk
  or RS232 or printer) is not recorded in the file.  When playing back a
  demo, in fact, no external files are needed except for the V9t9.EXE
  program, the demo, and the V9t9.CNF and MODULES.INF configuration files
  (they can be empty if necessary).

       At the present time, demo files consist of ALL data written to the
  video RAM rather than the data that actually controls graphics.  As a
  result, demos created under games with heavy VDP RAM usage will yield
  bloated demo files.  Some year I'll make a demonstration file shrinker.

       The demo files know nothing about the video or sound capabilities
  of the computer they were recorded on, so they are completely portable.
  (Only the speed of the recording computer matters.  Hee hee.)  You could
  record your demonstrations on an EGA-based, PC-speaker-only system, with
  sound turned off and video updates set to once every 4.25 seconds, and
  they would run perfectly normally (i.e., sounds/looks like a 99/4A) on a
  faster system with VGA and a Sound Blaster.


  ออออออออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออออออออออ
                        ณ USING THE DEMO FUNCTION ณ
  ออออออออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออออออออออ
       Recording demonstrations requires all the appropriate ROMs and
  files; a demo is just a "log" of V9t9's execution.

       To start demo recording, press Ctrl/Alt+F10.  If you are only
  greeted by a beep when you press Ctrl/Alt+F10, this means either (1) the
  "/D" parameter isn't on the command line, (2) you're running a demo, or
  (3) you're already recording a demo.

       Otherwise, the emulator will throw up a screen where you can enter
  the filename for the demonstration.  The location of the recorded file
  depends on the "RecordedDemosPath" variable.  If the filename you give
  is relative (i.e., no drive letter or absolute directory), the filename
  will be prepended by the "RecordedDemosPath" variable.  Some examples:

       If "RecordedDemosPath" is C:\V9t9\DEMOS then:

         Entering "sample.dem" will record to C:\V9T9\DEMOS\SAMPLE.DEM.
         Entering "d:test.dem" will record to D:TEST.DEM.
         Entering "sub\1st.dem" will record to C:\V9t9\DEMOS\SUB\1ST.DEM.
         Entering ".\here.dem" will record to .\HERE.DEM (whereever the
          current directory is).

       If V9t9 simply beeps after you press <enter>, then there is a
  problem with the filename.  A demo will not be recorded.  Try it again.

       As the demo is being recorded, there will be a slight slowdown as
  the bytes going into the sound/speech/video "chips" are saved to disk.
  Rather than call DOS to write every single byte (thereby slowing down
  execution almost 99 percent), buffers are used.  Any delays in execution
  will happen all at once as the buffer is flushed.  At the corresponding
  spot in the demo file, however, there will be a maximum of a 2/60 second
  delay, since timing stops during disk writes.

       To stop demo recording, press Shift+Ctrl+F10.  A screen will notify
  you that the demo recording has stopped.  Press <esc> to acknowledge.
  Another demo can now be recorded.

       Note that changing modules will halt demo recording.  Pressing
  Ctrl+Break will also stop the demo recording.  Shelling to DOS will NOT
  stop demo recording.


  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ


       Playing back a demo requires no ROMs or disks to execute, only
  V9t9.EXE and bare configuration files.

       During the execution of a demo, all of the Ctrl/Alt+Fxx runtime
  functions are still active.  Of course, many of them are useless (such
  as changing disk information or centering joysticks), but if doesn't
  hurt to leave 'em there.

       The functions which are useful are changing the video update speed,
  and selecting sound devices, and doing a DOS shell (if you want to leave
  the pretty demo for ANY reason...).  The module-switch function is
  disabled when executing demos, since ROMs are inherently required.

       If you have no idea if you're watching a demo (hmm), a line in the
  Shift+Ctrl+F1 screen will tell you.

       After the demo is complete, V9t9 will pause for three seconds to
  let you look at things, and then stop.

       You can press Ctrl-Break to abort a demo if you wish.

  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
