
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
     V9t9:  TI Emulator! v6.0 Documentation      (c) 1995 Edward Swartz
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
  ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤอออออออออออ DISKS.TXT อออออออออออฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ

       This file documents the disk emulation features of V9t9.
  Eventually V9t9 should allow the use of 99/4A compatible floppies in a
  PC drive, but it does not do so at the present time.


  อออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออ
               ณ HOW ARE DISK DRIVES EMULATED UNDER V9t9? ณ
  อออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออ

       There are two ways.  If you use the emulated disk ROM provided with
  V9t9, you can use "files-in-a-directory" or FIAD emulation.  If you use
  the disk ROM from the actual 99/4A disk controller, you can use "disk-
  on-a-disk" or DOAD emulation.  If you use both ROMs, you can use both
  FIAD and DOAD at the same time.

       A cute feature is that the disk (and RS232) can have "LEDs" in the
  lower-left corner of the screen, which will tell you when they are being
  accessed.  See the "ShowDiskLED" and "ShowEmuDiskLED" variables in
  CONFIG.TXT.


  ออออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออออออ
                    ณ WHAT IS "FILES-IN-A-DIRECTORY"? ณ
  ออออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออออออ

       Files-in-a-directory, or "FIAD", is a method of emulating 99/4A
  disk files by using the DOS filesystem to store them.  Using FIAD means
  that each 99/4A file exists as one DOS file, in a directory specified by
  DSKxPathName (see CONFIG.TXT).

       This method of storing files is very fast, since all file-level
  calls are handled in blazing 80x86 code, rather than in interpreted 9900
  code.

       Limitations to this sort of file storage are:

      99/4A files, which tend to be small, waste space on DOS disks.  (On
  the 99/4A, files are broken into 256-byte sectors, while in DOS,
  depending on the hard drive's cluster size, the granularity may be from
  512 bytes to 32k!)

      There is no "disk".  Although the hard drive on which the files
  exist could be treated as a "disk", it is not a 99/4A-compatible one.
  Sector reads/writes are not implemented, except for the catalog.

      Filename "mangling" happens.  Since the 99/4A allows different
  kinds of filenames than DOS (i.e., 10 chars instead of 8+3, more ASCII
  characters, etc.), FIADs must be renamed occasionally.  Characters in
  filenames which are illegal in DOS will be made legal by adding 128 to
  their ASCII value.  This will cause weird characters to appear in
  filenames.  The most common character, '/', is changed to "ฏ" (Alt+175
  on the numeric keypad).  Note that the utilities provided will accept
  *99/4A filenames* and automatically change them to access FIADs.

       Note that Microsoft Windows dislikes these mangled filenames, and
  is not able to access them.

      Upper/lowercase distinctions are lost, since DOS doesn't support
  it.  TI always advised against using lowercase anyway.


       FIADs are stored in a method very similar to the logical layout on
  a 99/4A system.  The first 128 bytes in the file is a copy of the first
  half of the File Descriptor Record (FDR) as found in a 99/4A file.
  Sectors of 256 bytes follow, completely compatible with the 99/4A
  storage format.  You can convert these files easily to (and from)
  TIFILES format (used in XMODEM transfers) with the XMDM2TI and TI2XMDM
  utilities.


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ


       Note that when using FIAD-only disk emulation, the CALL FILES
  subprogram has no effect.  FIAD disk emulation does not make use of any
  VDP memory, which CALL FILES is used to adjust.


  อออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออออ
                   ณ WHAT THE HELL IS "DISK-ON-A-DISK"? ณ
  อออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออออ

       Why, it's a catch phrase!  It's a method of emulating full TI disks
  under the DOS filesystem, instead of having directories full of 99/4A
  files with mangled filenames.  The 99/4A disk DSR ROM is required to use
  this feature.  (V9t9 does NOT support TI disks in PC drives -- yet.)

       DOAD images are stored on a DOS filesystem.  To access them from
  V9t9, defined the "DiskImageX" V9t9 configuration file variables.  By
  default these are DISK0001.DSK, DISK0002.DSK, and DISK0003.DSK in the
  \DISKS.  The variable "DiskImagePath" gives the directory for the disk
  images,

       A DOAD consists of a certain number of contiguous 256-byte sectors.
  How many sectors this is depends on how the disk is "formatted".  A DOAD
  can be double-sided, but V9t9 does not properly support this yet.

       DOAD images cannot emulate copy-protected disks.  This is because
  the vast majority of disks are not copy-protected, and the space taken
  up to store the extra information would otherwise be wasted.  Besides,
  if you have copy-protected disks, you can't copy them over to the PC
  anyway!  When direct floppy-drive access becomes available, copy-
  protection features will be inherently built-in.

       The use of DOAD requires a ROM dump of the 99/4A Diskette DSR.  I
  am not authorized to distribute this ROM, so you'll have to find a copy
  somewhere else.


  อออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออออออออ
                   ณ PROS AND CONS OF FIAD AND DOAD ณ
  อออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออออออออ

       Just some comparisons between those two methods of file emulation:

       (Files-in-a-Directory =  FIAD,
        Disk-on-a-Disk =        DOAD.)

  FIAD   Each 99/4A diskette is represented as a single DOS directory.
  vs
  DOAD   Each 99/4A diskette is stored as one DOS file.

  FIAD   Each 99/4A file is stored as one DOS file.
  vs
  DOAD   Each 99/4A file is stored inside a disk file.

  FIAD   File information (FDR) is stored at the beginning of each file.
  vs
  DOAD   File information is stored in dedicated sectors in disk file.

  FIAD   Really fast -- uses 80x86 coded file access routines.
  vs
  DOAD   Really slow -- uses "true" TI DSR ROM for "exact" emulation.

  FIAD   Debugged.
  vs
  DOAD   New.


  ออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟออออออออออออออ
              ณ WHY USE THE "FILES-IN-A-DIRECTORY" FORMAT? ณ
  ออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูออออออออออออออ

       The advantages to using "FIAD" is the speed of the file access and
  the ease of transferring files back and forth.  (For example, only the
  128-byte header differs between FIAD files and TIFILES-format files.)

       However, there are disadvantages in that you can't access sectors
  but to read some directory information, simply because the emulator
  doesn't associate physical sectors with files in a DOS directory.

       Still, for most purposes, FIAD is a perfectly fine way to access
  files.  (Three versions of this program have used it!)


  ออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟออออออออออออออออออ
                  ณ WHY USE THE DISK-ON-A-DISK FORMAT? ณ
  ออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูออออออออออออออออออ

       "DOAD" was added to eventually allow the use of TI-format floppies
  in the PC floppy drive.  V9t9 can't do this yet.

       As of now, the support for this format is very basic.  You should
  only need to use DOADs for programs which depend on direct sector
  access.  Also, there are bugs in dealing with double-sided disks.


  อออออออออออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออออออออออออ
                           ณ FILENAMES TO AVOID ณ
  อออออออออออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออออออออออออ

       Although V9t9 allows you to use any legal 99/4A filename in a FIAD
  or DOAD, you should avoid certain ASCII characters in order to make it
  easier to use the V9t9 file utilities.  V9t9 utilities allow you to use
  actual 99/4A filenames on the command line, meaning any character you
  put into a V9t9 filename may have to appear on the command line later.

         Don't use lowercase in FIADs.  There is no way to differentiate
  a lowercase and uppercase filename in DOS, and this may lead to
  problems.

         Don't use the ":" character in filenames.  This is what tells
  V9t9 utilities that you're accessing a disk image, thereby preventing
  you from accessing any FIAD with ":" in its name.  Also, this will
  prevent you from using a DOAD file, because more than two colons in a
  filename (one for a drive letter, if possible, and one for the disk
  image prefix) will be an error.

         Avoid using the "<" or ">" characters.  These are DOS
  redirection operators.  In order for a file with such a character in its
  name to be properly passed to a V9t9 utility, you need to enclose the
  whole filename in quotes:
       TIDIR ">README"

         Avoid using "*" and "?", since these are wildcards for V9t9
  utilities.

         Don't use ASCII characters in the range 0-31 and 128-255 to name
  files.  Firstly, you won't be able to create files with control
  characters in their names, and secondly, FIAD files reserve the 128-255
  characters to mangle files to work under DOS.


  ออออออออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออออออออออ
                        ณ HOW TO SPECIFY DSR ROMS ณ 
  ออออออออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออออออออออ

       The V9t9 archive is distributed with the disk DSRs EMUDISK.BIN and
  EMU2DISK.BIN in the \ROMS subdirectory.  (They are not TI ROMs.)  These
  allow access to the FIAD files.  EMU2DISK.BIN is meant to be used to
  allow simultaneous FIAD and DOAD usage.

       The variable "EmuDiskDSRFilename" tells the filename, relative to
  the "RomsPath" variable, of the emulated disk DSR ROM.  It is usually
  EMUDISK.BIN.  "DiskDSRFilename" is usually "DISK.BIN".
  "SharedDiskDSRFileName" is usually "EMU2DISK.BIN".

       The "DSRCombo" variable tells which DSR ROMs you want to use in
  V9t9.  It is given as a list of words, given below.  Remember, that no
  matter which DSR ROMs you activate, you access them the same way through
  V9t9:  with the DSKx device.


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ


       The word "EmuDisk" tells V9t9 to load the emulated disk DSR ROM,
  for FIAD-only usage.  It allows access to:

        DSK DSK1 DSK2 DSK3 DSK4 DSK5 dsk dsk1 dsk2 dsk3 dsk4 dsk5


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ


       The word "RealDisk" tells V9t9 to load a real disk ROM, for DOAD
  usage.  The disk ROM must be compatible with the FDC chip used in the
  99/4A disk controller, since V9t9 can only currently support the SS/SD
  DSR ROM at present.  It supports these devices:

        DSK DSK1 DSK2 DSK3

       The FDC commands the emulator supports are seek to track, seek
  home, step in, write track, read ID marker, read sector, write sector

       I'm almost sure there are more commands which I don't know about.
  (Or that I left out of the list!)


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ


       In case you will be using the 99/4A Disk DSR ROM in addition to the
  emulated disk DSR, then use the word "BothDisk".  This allows access to:

        DSK DSK1 DSK2 DSK3 DSK4 DSK5 dsk3 dsk4 dsk5

       With this setup, the DSK1, DSK2, and DSK3 devices are ALWAYS DOADs,
  and the others are FIADs.

       Note that with this setup, using the DSK device will ONLY match
  FIADs, for some reason.  I don't know why.  I'm hoping to fix it.


  อออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟออออออออออออออออ
               ณ INTERNAL EFFECTS OF FIAD and DOAD USAGE ณ
  อออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูออออออออออออออออ

       When both FIAD and DOAD access are used, there are several
  potential problems.  TI Emulator! tries to get around them.

         CRU bases.  FIAD access operates from CRU base >1000.  DOAD
  operates from >1100.  I suppose this is advantageous, since no CRU bits
  (other than ROM activate) are defined for FIAD access.

         Low-level functions.  When a low-level function is called, the
  FIAD will first intercept it.  If its "disks" (DSK3-DSK5) are not being
  referenced, it will signal for the 99/4A ROM will try the next CRU base,
  the DOAD ROM.

         High-level functions.  This operates the same as for low-level
  functions, except when the DSK device is accessed.  The DSK device is
  used with a volumename meant to allow access to the disk drive which
  contains the disk with that volumename.  This is still buggy when both
  DSRs are activated.


  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
