
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
     V9t9:  TI Emulator! v6.0 Documentation      (c) 1995 Edward Swartz
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
  ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤอออออออออออ DISTRIB.TXT อออออออออออฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ

       This program archive is fairware, meaning you can distribute it and
  use it like a maniac for no charge.


  ออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออออ
                  ณ HOW WILL I DISTRIBUTE THE EMULATOR? ณ
  ออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออออ

       I am planning to release a new version of V9t9 every FOUR MONTHS.
  Due to problems had in the past with unexpectedly having to change my
  payment/"registration" policies, I will usually only accept money for
  the latest version, as well.  So it's a good idea to know if a new
  version is imminent and be on the lookout for it (considering you want
  to get stuff from me or send bug reports, that is).

       Because most "real big" upgrades take prolonged months of intense
  programming to create, look for big changes (like from v6.0 to v7.0)
  during the summer or after the winter holidays.  However, smaller
  changes will reflect bug fixes and possible changes in payment policy.
  Of course, even as I write this, I don't know how to define what makes a
  "real big" upgrade, so I might even release v7.0 four months from NOW.
  I doubt it, though.  :)

       I will notify the USENET groups comp.sys.ti and comp.emulators.misc
  to tell about a new version of V9t9, and where to find it.  I will also
  ask TI kingpins to spread the word.

       If you can't find a new version, and I haven't posted to
  comp.sys.ti or comp.emulators.misc telling of a delay or termination of
  the project, feel free to contact me and I'll e-mail you the latest
  archive, in uuencoded or MIME format.  Please tell me which you want.
  If your server doesn't allow "big" messages to be received, I'll point
  you to an FTP site.

       I DO NOT WANT to snail-mail archives of the emulator, so please
  don't refer people to my mailing address to get "full copies" of the
  program.  (This almost always results in someone sending me a lot of
  money, in essence just to use the program, and that reeks of
  commercialism.)  See ORDERING.TXT for information on how to get a
  MINIMAL orders which includes the emulator.


  อออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟออออออออออออ
             ณ HOW WILL YOU DISTRIBUTE THIS ARCHIVE FOR ME? ณ
  อออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูออออออออออออ

       This archive and program, being fairware, may be freely distributed
  anywhere.  In fact, I very highly recommend it!  There are certain
  limitations, though.

       Here's how you can distribute it:

         Stick it on FTP sites around the world.
         Give copies to your friends, neighbors, bosses, and employees.
         Put it on BBSes.  Preferably public ones.
         Mail out copies of this archive on disk, for no more than $3.
         On a CD-ROM.  (Preferably a free or low-cost one.)  _Please_
          contact me first, though.  (See CONTACT.TXT.)


       Here's what you CAN'T do:

         Change any of these text files or change the program.
         Fiddle with the 600V9t9.ZIP archive.
         Put ANY copyrighted ROMS *whatsoever* into the archive.  99/4A
          ROMs (and others) are protected by copyright, and my license
          doesn't extend to free mass distribution.
       

       Here, however, is a change I will allow (and encourage):

         Add your own demos to the accompanying archive 600VDEMS.ZIP.  If
          you would, include a *.TXT file with the same base name as the
          demo file (BURGER.TXT for BURGER.DEM, for example) which tells
          on what the module/program is, and on what type of computer
          (processor/speed/video card/etc) you recorded the demo.  This
          will help demonstrate how the emulator actually does act on
          certain computers (as my estimate of a 386DX/33 matching the
          speed of a real 99/4A are only two computers' results).

          However, if your contributions will make the total 600VDEMS.ZIP
          file huge (greater than 2 megs), put it in a separate archive,
          which you can distribute in the same directory as the other TI
          Emulator! archives.  Name it 600VDEMx.ZIP (where x is a number)
          to show its association with other v6.0 files.

          Note that this little idea of mine will probably result in the
          existence of a whole lot of completely different 600VDEMx.ZIP
          (and other) archives.  I hope it will work out just that way.


  ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ

       If the 600V9t9.ZIP archive you received seems tampered with,
       compare its contents with this list:

         600V9t9.TXT      (~1k)
         INSTALL.EXE      (~20k)
         V9t9_6.PKG       (~600k)
         VDEM_6.PKG       (~200k)
         V9t9.DFL         (~7k)

       If your archive is remarkably different from this list (excluding
  possible extra text files), please contact me (see CONTACT.TXT), and
  tell me where you got it, and I'll prepare to flame some ass.

  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
