
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
     V9t9:  TI Emulator! v6.0 Documentation      (c) 1995 Edward Swartz
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
  ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤอออออออออออ FORTH.TXT อออออออออออฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ

       This file gives a tutorial for using the FORTH-based ROMs that come
  free with the emulator.  Since 99/4A ROMs can't be included in widely-
  distributed fairware, I've made up these ROMs so something useful can be
  achieved with the emulator until you get the real ROMs.

       If you don't know how to program in FORTH, well, I can't teach you.
  It's a simple language but the concepts take some getting used to.  The
  main purpose for writing V9t9 FORTH was to let V9t9 have some semblance
  of a ROM so people could use it for *something*.  The transfer program
  is the main purpose for the FORTH in this version -- see TRANSFER.TXT.


  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
                              ณ BASIC INFO ณ
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ

       The FORTH implementation was mainly written with the indispensable
  "Pocket Guide to FORTH" by Linda Baker and Mitch Derick.  Other books
  were used to make the PC version of FORTH a few years ago from which I
  developed this V9t9 version.  I borrowed them from my professor and
  haven't needed them since.  Anyway, I'm not exactly sure what sort of
  standard I've managed to implement here, but it's probably better than
  FORTH-79.

       It's a simple 16-bit system, with no multitasking support.  I
  figured it wasn't worth it for such a throwaway purpose.  :)  In
  addition to the basic FORTH kernel is a nice graphics kernel which
  handles text, graphics, bitmap, and monochrome bitmap modes.  In the
  bitmap modes, turtle graphics can be used, which are actually faster
  than TI LOGO.

       Since most of the kernel is stored in the module ROM segment, 24k
  is available for programs (the low 8k is used for the stacks).

       Most of the support programs are in source form and stored in the
  provided file "FORTHDSK".


  ออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออ
                ณ RUNNING THE MEAGER FORTH DEMO PROGRAMS ณ
  ออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออ

       A list of demos that come with V9t9 FORTH will come up when you
  type in "HELPDEMOS".  You must enter "LOADTURTLE" to use most of the
  graphics demos.


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ

                                 LOADTURTLE

       LOADTURTLE will load up all the turtle graphics routines.  These
  are based on a line-drawing program and a sine table.  The turtle is
  always invisible.

       FD   ( n -- )
       will move the invisible turtle forward "n" pixels.  You cannot use
  negative numbers; use BK instead.

       BK   ( n -- )       will move the turtle backward "n" pixels.

       RT   ( n -- )
       will turn the turtle right "n" degrees.

       LT   ( n -- )
       will turn the turtle left "n" degrees.

       SH   ( n -- )
       will set the turtle's heading to "n" degrees.

       HEADING ( -- n )
       returns the turtle's current heading.

       PD   ( n -- )
       will set the pen down.  (The turtle draws.)

       PU   ( n -- )
       will set the pen up.  (The turtle only moves.)

       The source for the turtle routines is provided on the disk.


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ

                                 LOADSPONGE

       LOADSPONGE will load an implementation of a "sponge" fractal that I
  found in a computer magazine.  You need to do LOADTURTLE first.  Execute
  the program as
       
       xxx yyy SPONGE

       where xxx is greater than yyy.  243 and 3 are interesting, yet
  create a very compact shape.


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ

                                  LOADSUN

       LOADSUN will load an implementation of the "sun" design from the TI
  LOGO manual.  You need to do LOADTURTLE first.  Execute the program
  with:
       
       xxx SUN

       where xxx is a number from 1 to 7 or so.  It'll simply draw a sun
  shape.  Whee.


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ

                                LOADSPRITES

       LOADSPRITES will load up a sprite library.  The definitions are
  provided in source form on the disk.  I haven't yet done anything to
  demonstrate the sprites, so it's mainly a programmer's playground.  The
  routines are set up to facilitate intricate control of each aspect of a
  sprite (position, color, character), as well as easily allowing a full
  sprite definition.

       SPRITE@ ( x -- vaddr)
       will return the VDP RAM address of a certain sprite's entry.  Only
  numbers from 0 to 31 are meaningful.

       Use SPRITE@ before any of the following routines.

       SX! ( vaddr x -- )
       will set the x-coordinate of the sprite at VADDR to "x".

       SX@ ( vaddr -- x )
       will return the x-coordinate of the sprite at VADDR.

       The rest of the routines are directly analogous:

       SY!, SY@            (Y-coordinate)
       SCOLOR!, SCOLOR@    (sprite color)
       SPATT!, SPATT@      (sprite pattern #)


                A sequence for setting the X and Y coordinates
            of a sprite "zz" could be:

            zz SPRITE@   DUP xx SX!   yy SY!

                Or, to also set the color:

            zz SPRITE@   DUP xx SX!   DUP yy SY!   cc SCOLOR!


       MS1x1 ( addr n -- )
       will set the 8x8 pattern for sprite #n to the eight-byte pattern at
  addr.  Best way to do this is:

            CREATE PATTERN
            xx , xx , xx , xx , xx , xx , xx , xx , 
            PATTERN yy MS1x1
       
       which will create an 8-byte entry called "PATTERN" and set sprite
  "yy" to have that pattern.

       MS2x2 ( addr n -- )
       will set the 16x16 pattern for sprite #n to the 32-byte pattern at
  addr.  See above, except use 32 "xx"s.


  อออออออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟออออออออออออออออออออออ
                       ณ EXTRAS IN THE DICTIONARY ณ
  อออออออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูออออออออออออออออออออออ

       In hopes of actually writing some entertaining programs under
  FORTH, I implemented a number of graphics support words into the ROM, in
  addition to the standard FORTH dictionary.  Later versions of V9t9
  should have a more useful FORTH implementation.


       VC!       ( val addr -- )
       will write a byte to VDP RAM.

       VC@       ( addr -- val )
       will read a byte from VDP RAM.

       V!        ( val addr -- )
       will write a word to VDP RAM.

       V@        ( addr -- val )
       will read a word from VDP RAM.

       VCMOVE    ( vaddr addr len -- )
       will move a block of bytes from VDP RAM to CPU RAM.

       CVMOVE    ( addr vaddr len -- )
       will move a block of bytes from CPU RAM to VDP RAM.

       CMP       ( addr1 addr2 len -- 0|1)
       will compare the block of memory at addr1 with the block of memory
  at addr2, and return 0 if they are different, and 1 if they are the
  same.


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ


       TEXT      ( -- )
       will set text mode, 40x24.

       GRAPHICS  ( -- )
       will set graphics mode, 32x24.

       BITMAP    ( -- )
       will set bitmap mode, 256x192.

       MONO      ( -- )
       will set up bitmap mode, using only two colors.  This makes           
       terminal output faster.


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ



       EMIT      ( char -- )
       will print the character's ASCII code to the screen, with
  translations for the bell (7), tab (9), and carriage return (13) codes.

       EMIT8     ( char -- )
       will print the character without any translation

       GOTOXY    ( x y -- )
       will move the cursor to (x,y).  (0,0) is top-left.

       WINDOW    (x y sx sy -- )
       will create a text window (but no border will be drawn).  The
  window starts at (x,y) and extends (sx,sy) characters to the right and
  down.

       CLS       ( -- )
       will clear the contents current window.

       FULL      ( -- )
       will make the window fit the entire screen (useful after switching
  from graphics to text mode, which leaves the window at 32x24).

       CURSOR    ( -- addr )
       will return the address of a byte defining the cursor character.
       
       FG        ( -- addr )
       will return the address of a byte defining the foreground color.
  This is used in terminal output and line drawing.

       BG        ( -- addr )
       will return the address of a byte defining the background color.
  This is used in terminal output and line drawing.

       WX        ( -- n )
       returns the X-position of the cursor within the window.

       WY        ( -- n )
       returns the Y-position of the cursor within the window.

       WSX       ( -- n )
       returns the X-size of the window in characters.

       WSY       ( -- n )
       returns the Y-size of the window in characters.


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ


       LINE      ( x1 y1 x2 y2 -- )
       draws a line in bitmap or mono mode.  The line is wraps to fit the
  screen.


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ


       All of these "constants" are set when you change the graphics mode
  via TEXT, GRAPHICS, BITMAP, or MONO.

       VSCREEN   ( -- vaddr )
       returns the VDP RAM address of the screen image table.

       VPATTS    ( -- vaddr )
       returns the VDP RAM address of the pattern descriptor table.

       VCOLORS   ( -- vaddr )
       returns the VDP RAM address of the color table.  0 if in text mode.

       VSPRITES  ( -- vaddr )
       returns the VDP RAM address of the sprite table.  0 if in text
  mode.

       VSPRPAT   ( -- vaddr )
       returns the VDP RAM address of the sprite pattern table.  0 if in
  text mode.

       VSPRMOT   ( -- vaddr )
       returns the VDP RAM address of the sprite motion table.  0 if in
  text mode.  Sprite motion is unimplemented at present.


                            ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ


       DSRLNK    ( 8|10 pab -- 1 / err)
                 ( 8|10 pab -- 0 )
       will call the DSRLNK routine, given the beginning address of the
  PAB and 8 for a device call or 10 for a subroutine call.  Returns 0 if
  the call succeeded, otherwise returns 1 and the error code.


  อออออออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟออออออออออออออออออออ
                       ณ V9t9 FORTH PARTICULARITIES ณ
  อออออออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูออออออออออออออออออออ

         V9t9 FORTH is not case sensitive.

         Under V9t9 FORTH, enter "Ctrl+Shift+Fctn+Space" to abort any
  executing program.

         There is a non-working line editor on blocks 18-19.  It's meant
  to allow interactive editing of a specific line in a block.

         V9t9 FORTH uses my own keyboard-handling routines, which should
  NOT require tweaking-for-speed on any systems, as it is controlled by
  the timer interrupt.  A 32-byte keyboard buffer is available, as well.
  When you use the actual 99/4A ROM, you'll notice the keyboard is much
  less responsive.


  อออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
