
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
     V9t9:  TI Emulator! v6.0 Documentation      (c) 1995 Edward Swartz
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
  ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤอออออออออออ JOYSTICK.TXT อออออออออออฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ

       This file talks about how the two 99/4A joysticks are emulated with
  V9t9.

       First of all, about the 99/4A joysticks.  They are digital devices
  which have output lines representing the four directions and the
  button's status.  IBM joysticks are analog; TI joysticks cannot be used
  on a PC.

       The 99/4A joysticks are 'seen' through the CRU (communications
  register unit), accessed along with the keyboard bits.


  อออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ

       Under V9t9, you can use a combination of IBM analog joysticks, a
  Microsoft-compatible mouse, and the numeric keypad to emulate joysticks.
  When the emulator starts up, the available devices are found, and the
  best combination of devices is automatically chosen:

             IBM joystick 1,  IBM joystick 2
             IBM joystick 1,  Microsoft-compatible mouse
             IBM joystick 1,  numeric keypad
             Microsoft mouse, numeric keypad
             Numeric keypad,  none

       This automatic configuration is not set in stone.  The Ctrl/Alt+F6
  keystroke changes the current device used to emulate joystick #1.
  (Shift+Ctrl/Alt+F6 changes joystick #2.)  The two devices are not
  allowed to be the same.  Each use of the function will select another
  device, going in order down the list below:

             IBM joystick #1
             IBM joystick #2
             Microsoft mouse
             Numeric keypad
             None

       You may select any of these devices; the emulator won't try to stop
  you.  This is in case an existing device was not found upon startup (or
  if you suddenly decided to plug in joysticks).  But if you select an
  illegal device, you'll either get no response or a constant movement in
  some direction. Pressing Shift+Ctrl+F1 will let you see what devices are
  currently being used.


  อออออออออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟออออออออออออออออออออออ
                         ณ MY JOYSTICK IS INSANE! ณ
  อออออออออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูออออออออออออออออออออออ

       You may need to center your joysticks the first time you use the
  emulator, or maybe not:  upon startup (when the "Checking joysticks"
  message is displayed), an automatic centering is performed, assuming
  you're not holding the joystick in any funny direction.  To recenter
  joysticks, press Ctrl+F7 to center joystick #1 and Shift+Ctrl+F7 for
  joystick #2.  This will bring up a prompt for you to do funny things to
  your joystick.  When it's done, be sure to test out that it works
  nicely.

       When you've obtained a nice centering, the Shift+Ctrl+F1 page will
  show what the centered values of the joystick(s) are (the "bounds").  Copy down the values and edit the V9t9.CNF configuration variable(s)
  "Joystick1Bounds" and "Joystick2Bounds".  The format is like this:

      Joystick1Bounds = 20,20,50
  or
      Joystick2Bounds = 100,100,300

       The numbers in the list are completely processor-speed dependent,
  so when moving the emulator from computer to computer, you'll need to
  recenter.  (These variables _do_ override the automatically centered
  values calculated upon startup, so if the startup values work fine, you
  don't need to define JoystickXBounds.)

       Either of the joystick's buttons can be used as the fire button.


  ออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟออออออออออออ
              ณ      OKAY, BUDDY, I HAVE NO JOYSTICKS.      ณ
              ณ TELL ME HOW TO USE A MOUSE WITH THIS THING. ณ
  ออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูออออออออออออ

       A Microsoft-compatible mouse (i.e., uses MOUSE.COM and INT 33h or
  something similar) can be used to emulate one joystick.  Mice are funny
  creatures so there are two ways that they can emulate joysticks.

      Positional.  This means that the location of the (invisible) mouse
  cursor, in relation to the center of the screen, serves as the current
  direction the "joystick" is pushing.  Since the mouse cursor generally
  stays in one place when you're not moving it, continued movement in a
  certain direction is a matter of simply moving the mouse and leaving it
  there.  The fact that the mouse cursor is invisible may cause some
  confusion, so there's...

      Motional.  This means that whatever direction the mouse has moved
  since the last time it was checked serves as the "joystick"'s direction.
  The mouse resembles a trackball in this mode.

       Which type of emulation you want is selected with the
  MouseEmulationType configuration variable.  A value of 0 means
  positional emulation, and 1 means motional.

       With mice, any of the buttons serves as the fire button.


  อออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออ
         ณ I'M A POOR BOY.  I GUESS I'LL USE THE NUMERIC KEYPAD. ณ
  อออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออ

       Okay.  Using the numeric keypad is the same as using the arrow keys
  printed on them.  (2 is down, 4 is left, etc.)  But note that since this
  is meant to emulate joysticks, you can hold down two (or more?) keys at
  once to get diagonal movements.  The 1/3/7/9 keys are not emulated.

       With the numeric keypad, the NumLock key is the fire button.

       Using the numeric keypad may seem to be the same thing as using the
  E/S/D/X/Q and I/J/K/M/Y arrow keys, like most programs allow.  Well, the
  simple fact is, some programs don't read the keyboard (making them
  impossible to use on a _real_ 99/4A with no joysticks).  So the numeric
  keypad comes to the rescue.


  ออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออ
              ณ  HOW'D YOU SPEED UP THE JOYSTICK ROUTINES, ณ
              ณ AND WHY WON'T THEY WORK ON A PENTIUM-2000? ณ
  ออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออ
       Well, sensing that the BIOS was a little slow, I decided to delve
  into some sources some IBMers had sent me, and create joystick routines
  better suited to the emulator.

       I wondered how much faster the routines would go because of the
  switch from BIOS, and saw happily that it was about two hundred times
  faster.  The simple reason for this, I finally realized, was that the
  BIOS invariably scans for BOTH joysticks no matter how many you have or
  how many you want to read.  (I develop with one joystick.)

       The reason this is a problem is due to the way analog joysticks
  work.  You send a command to the game port to reinitialize, and then
  wait for "X" and "Y" bits to go off.  The amount of time it takes for
  these bits to go off is directly proportional to the offset of the
  joystick from its upper-left corner.

       When reading the coordinates, therefore, a typical thing to do is
  to set up a counter upon resetting the joystick.  And when the bit for
  "X" or "Y" goes off, the value of the counter is recorded as the
  respective parameter's coordinate.

       This process of waiting isn't what takes up time.  The problem
  comes about when a joystick isn't connected, because its bits NEVER go
  off.  So, on a one-joystick system, the BIOS will eventually time out in
  waiting for the second joystick to turn off its bits.  The timeout is
  probably too long, but differing types of joysticks necessitate this.

       My algorithm takes an approach that most modern programmers would
  despise.  Usually, joystick routines use a dedicated hardware timer to
  keep track of the time (and correspondingly the joystick's coordinates).
  Well, I opted for a software timer, one that increments every time it
  reads the joysticks.  But don't groan, people.  I found quite happily
  that using a software timer provides very important advantages for this
  emulator.  First, the dedicated timer I could have used would have
  either been the timer connected to the PC speaker (forcing me to turn it
  off and make it click while the joysticks were being scanned), the clock
  timer (which goes at variable speeds throughout the program), or the DMA
  refresh bit (which likes to suddenly go two times slower at erratic
  intervals, at least on my system).  The software timer also enjoys very
  high precision and coordinates don't vary as much as the BIOS routines'.

       The only problem there would be with this algorithm is that some
  insanely fast computer might overflow the 16-bit counter I'm using
  (since the timing depends solely on the processor's and the bus card's
  speed).  This counter only reaches to 120 on my 386SX/20, but I'm sure
  some megalomaniac out there will suddenly find that his joysticks don't
  work (because my routines time out upon reaching 65535).  I'm saying
  this tongue-in-cheek, of course, but if this does become a problem, then
  I'll expand it to 32 bits.

       Anyway, the overall advantage of this rewrite is that joysticks are
  actually fun to use now.  And, the erratic timing of the BIOS routines
  is gone as well, meaning that every joystick read is accurate, so no
  more floating joysticks.


  อออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
