
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
     V9t9:  TI Emulator! v6.0 Documentation      (c) 1995 Edward Swartz
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
  ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤอออออออออออ SOUND.TXT อออออออออออฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ


       Here ya go, a whole file about how hard it is to emulate the TI's
  pitifully simple sound chip on a PC.


  อออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออ
           ณ I DON'T UNDERSTAND...  WHAT'S 99/4A SOUND LIKE? ณ
  อออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออ

       The 99/4A's sound chip provides three voices (square-wave tones)
  which can have pitches from 109 to 55938 Hz.  There's also a noise
  register, which either does white noise (hissing) or periodic noise
  (what you get when silencing 15 out of 16 "squares" in a square wave).
  Noise can have the same pitch range as the three voices.  All these
  channels can have 16 levels of volume.


  ออออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออออออออ
                    ณ HOW'S THIS EMULATED ON A PC? ณ
  ออออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออออออออ

       *takes a breath*  Not very easily.  With the use of a Sound
  Blaster, it's possible to get most of the emulation down.  Even then,
  just how to do it is a puzzle.

       The main point to remember:  while both the PC speaker and the
  Sound Blaster could be programmed to produce exact digitized samples of
  99/4A sound (like the way MOD files are played), the calculation time
  required would completely paralyze the emulator.  Especially on my
  system.  :)


       So, first, the case with the PC speaker only.  The speaker can
  produce continuous square-wave tones.  There, we've got one voice.
  Uh...?  That would be pretty pitiful if that were all.  (As in earlier
  versions of this program!)  The way I've gotten around this is to toggle
  the current voice eminating from the speaker every 1/60 second.  This
  results in an arpeggio effect (when more than one voice is playing, of
  course), which I think is very nice, compared to hearing only one voice
  out of a favorite 3-voice song.

       Since PC speakers don't have a volume control, I simply programmed
  the voice not to play if its attenuation (i.e., quietness) goes above
  the level defined in the configuration variable PCSpeakerSilenceLevel.
  An attenuation of 15 means the voice is off; 0 is the loudest volume.  A
  setting of about 12 will serve to blot out those silent background
  ditties which otherwise would dominate the action.

       With the PC speaker I couldn't get any sort of noise to work, so
  there's no noise with the PC speaker.


       The second device is the FM chips, as are found in the Adlib card
  and on Sound Blasters.  This device allows, at its minimum, 11 voices.
  So, I figured this would be the next-simplest way to implement 3-voice
  sound.  It works pretty well, except for the limitations on its pitch
  range and precision, and the fact that FM chips use sine waves instead
  of square waves.

       Above a certain pitch, tones drop off because of the FM chips' 8-
  octave range.  And, even at the highest pitches before they drop off,
  they sound as if coming from a combination of several lower octaves, due
  to the physics of sine waves.

       With FM chips, I was able to emulate periodic noise.  Of course, it
  doesn't sound exactly like 99/4A periodic noise, but it's something.  If
  someone out there can help me set up the cymbal instrument, then I could
  also do one-pitch white noise.


       Finally, the third device is the Sound Blaster, using digitized
  samples, played with DMA (direct memory access).  DMA allows sound to be
  played in the background independent of program control, which would
  seem to make it an excellent candidate to emulate the entire 99/4A sound
  chip.  Because it doesn't require that the emulator be poking data into
  the Sound Blaster constantly (cf. the worst-case, best-sound scenario
  above), it would seem to be the best way to go.

       Well, no.  Not right now, at least.  The emulator only uses DMA for
  noise.  The reasons for this are simple:  (1)  It would still require
  calculation to come up with the samples of 3-voice sound; although
  samples can repeat, frequently-changing sound poses the same speed
  problem.  (2)  I use the CT-VOICE.DRV driver to access DMA, wanting to
  be compatible with Sound Blaster cards, and also not wanting to delve
  into the intricacies of direct DMA access.

       So, I only use DMA for noise.  You might be thinking that since
  noise is sound too, it still needs to be calculated, presenting the
  exact same speed problems I've been harping on.  Well, that's true.  But
  noise is only one channel.  The features of the Sound Blaster let me
  calculate one sample (uh... see below), and change its speed (therefore
  its pitch) and its volume (through the Sound Blaster mixer).  So the
  calculation only happens when absolutely necessary.  Most games simulate
  explosions by fading the volume of white noise.  Under V9t9, the white
  noise sample is calculated once, and then the mixer chips are changed to
  change its volume.

       Now, again come into play hardware limitations.  The Sound Blaster
  (vanilla)'s frequency range is 4000 to 22000 Hz.  99/4A noise can be
  from 109 to 55938 Hz.  Again, a compromise is made.  What the emulator
  does is this:  for each type of noise, there are two buffers.

       One holds a fixed sample of noise calculated at 4000 Hz.  When a
  noise of the range 4000-22000 Hz is played, this sample is played at the
  appropriate speed.

       The other buffer is used to calculate, on demand, noise samples
  from 109 to 3999 Hz.  Why not just make this buffer fixed-speed like
  buffer #1, you ask?  Well, look at the ranges.  4000 Hz is 36 times
  faster than 109 Hz.  But 22000 Hz is only 5.5 times faster than 4000 Hz
  (the Sound Blaster's range).  So, rather than allocate YET MORE buffers
  to cover the middle range(s), the lesser-used noises lower-pitched than
  4000 Hz are calculated.

       Calculating white noise takes in theory about 15 times longer than
  periodic noise, due to the fact that periodic noise is mainly silence.
  At least on my 386-SX/20, I can see the slowdown that low-pitched white
  noise makes.  Maybe some day when I feel like it, I'll let the emulator
  allocate 60k more and make the lower ranges fixed-speed.  Who knows.


  ออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟออออออออ
        ณ     OKAY.  I READ ALL THAT.  I SYMPATHIZE WITH YOU.   ณ
        ณ NOW TELL ME HOW TO SELECT WHAT DEVICES I WANT TO USE. ณ
  ออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูออออออออ
       Okay.  In addition to the 99/4A sound chips, I use the PC speaker
  or Sound Blaster direct-data for speech.  Just remember that.  (See
  SPEECH.TXT for more.)

       The PlaySound variable in TIEMUL.CNF allows you to specify what
  devices you want the emulator to use (or NOT use) when emulating sound.
  By default, V9t9 tries to use the PC speaker, FM chips, Sound Blaster
  direct-data, and the Sound Blaster with DMA usage.  All of these
  devices, except SB DMA, can be detected easily.


  อออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ


       Using DMA access with the Sound Blaster requires the CT-VOICE.DRV
  driver (usually comes with SB cards).  The SOUND= and BLASTER= DOS
  environment variables are usually set up by the Sound Blaster
  installation program to provide setup information for this driver.  The
  SOUND= variable points to the Sound Blaster software directory on your
  hard drive.  The DRV\ subdirectory off of that directory is where CT-
  VOICE.DRV is found.  In AUTOEXEC.BAT:

  SOUND=e:\sbpro      means that e:\sbpro\drv\CT-VOICE.DRV is where it is.

       The BLASTER= variable gives information about the card (T)ype, its
  base port (A)ddress, its (I)RQ level, and its (D)MA channel.  (Note the
  emphasized letters correspond to those used in defining the variable.)
  My AUTOEXEC.BAT's BLASTER= variable is:

  BLASTER=A220 I7 D1 T2    meaning, base port is 220h, IRQ 7, DMA channel    
                           1, and type 2 (SB Pro).

       Sound Blaster 16 cards have an additional parameter, Hx, which
  tells what the 16-bit DMA channel is.  V9t9 doesn't use SB Pro or SB-16
  features.

       DMA usage takes up about 66k-70k of memory, for the CT-VOICE.DRV
  driver and the sample buffers.  The driver initializes slowly as well.
  Since the emulator releases sample buffer memory and deinitializes the
  driver when turning sound on and off (during help screens, even), this
  delay will slow down certain aspects of the emulator's operation.


  อออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ


       The PlaySound variable consists of sound device names, preceded
  with '+', '-', or nothing, to tell the emulator whether to use it.  Note
  that by default, _all_ available devices will be used.  PlaySound is
  most useful for telling which devices NOT to use.

       Examples:

      PlaySound = Adlib                  means use the FM chips and
                                          all other devices.
      PlaySound = -Adlib,+pcspeaker      means don't use the FM chips;
                                          use everything else.
      PlaySound = -adlib,-sblaster       means use only the speaker and
                                          SB DMA, if possible.

       The most significant use of PlaySound is this:

      PlaySound = -sbdma


       Specifying "-sbdma" means that SB DMA will NEVER be used during one
  execution of emulator.  For all the other devices, pressing Ctrl/Alt+F5
  will let you toggle them on and off.  Only if "-sbdma" is absent will
  the emulator use SB DMA; Ctrl/Alt+F5 can then toggle it on and off.

       This idiosyncracy is on purpose.  The complexity of allocating
  memory, initializing the CT-VOICE.DRV driver, setting up the samples,
  etc., requires that I can't let SB DMA suddenly turn on for the first
  time inside a running program.  All other devices are controlled on a
  hardware level, so it's fine to use them, or not, at will.


  ออออออออออออออออออฺฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฟอออออออออออออออออออออ
                    ณ NOISE IS WAY TOO LOUD/QUIET! ณ
  ออออออออออออออออออภฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤูอออออออออออออออออออออ

       It is, huh?  Since the level of sound produced by the FM chips is
  not equivalent to that produced by the DSP chips, there will be some
  discrepancy until you figure out a good value for the NoiseTop
  configuration variable.

       It's recommended that you have your Sound Blaster mixer set for
  maximum volume on the FM chips.  Then, you can set NoiseTop
  independently.

       The value for NoiseTop is directly related to the volume of the 8-
  bit digitized data as it's represented on the Sound Blaster's DSP chips.
  128 is silence; 0 and 255 are loudest levels.  So, setting NoiseTop to
  140 or 116 produces pretty quiet noise; and a setting of 10 or 245
  produces pretty loud noise.

       The volume for noise is also determined by the attentuation level
  the 99/4A program gives it.  The mixer channel for "Voice" (DSP) is
  changed to provide this volume change.  Therefore, trying to change the
  voice volume outside the program will have no effect on the overall
  level of noise.

  อออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
