
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
     V9t9:  TI Emulator! v6.0 Documentation      (c) 1995 Edward Swartz
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
  ฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤอออออออออออ THANKS.TXT อออออออออออฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤฤ
  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ

       I'd like to thank everyone who has ever used this program and told
  me about it.  I'm glad to know such a thing as a 99/4A emulator can be
  moderately popular.  :)

       I want to thank these people personally for their great
  contributions to the project:

         Jim Reiss, who sent me tons of test files, information about
  disks, RS232s, file formats, protocols, and provided major suggestions
  which helped me create v5.01 from the toy-like pieces of v4.0.

         Jeff Lawson, who sent me the (digitized!) articles about the
  speech synthesizer that gave me the information to emulate speech
  directly.

         Dan H. Eicher, for sending me Funnelweb to test on the emulator,
  and a commented disassembly of the console ROM which helped out a WHOLE
  lot.

         Steve Hayter, for the "V9t9" name, and a nice round of beta-
  testing.

         Robert Jones, for sending me the TI speech synthesizer manual
  which cleared up a few things.

         Will Chose, Eric Bray, Charles Good, Tom Wills, Howie Uman,
  Jesse Slicer, Brian Sedlak, and so many others that this might start to
  look like an awards ceremony, for their exceptional interest in the
  program, helpful suggestions, and bug-hunting.


       I also thank ALL the people who bug-hunted and gave me suggestions.
  (This includes everyone in the above list!)  Of course, I'm grateful for
  the people who sent money too.  ;)  I'm always happy, if sometimes
  reluctant, to take suggestions.  A lot of what people suggested has made
  its way into V9t9, and I'm indebted to everyone who has had a part in it
  so far.


  ออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออออ
